[Internationalisation](Internationalisation) of GameShell
=================================

We rely on GNU's tool for internationalisation: `gettext`.

Internationalisation of missions
--------------------------------

A language is specified using a strings `language[_territory]` (e.g., `fr`
denotes French, `en_GB` denotes British English, etc.). In most cases, the
"locale" of the system will be used to choose the language for GameShell. In
the other cases, you can specify it with the `-L` option.

On GNU systems, just giving the 2 letters language code should be enough. It
will set the `LANGUAGE` variable that lists preferred languages for messages
```sh
$ ./gameshell.sh -L fr
```

On non GNU systems (macOS, BSD), you'll need to specify a valid locale name
```sh
$ ./gameshell.sh -L fr_FR.utf8
```
(You can get the list of available locales with `locale -a`.)


In the code, a string that needs translating is used either as
- `gettext "STRING"` when the string is "static" (it contains no variable)
- or `eval_gettext "STRING"` when the string is "dynamic" (it contains shell
  variables)

Note that the shell expands variables inside strings, so dollar signs need to
be escaped in both cases. Here is a typical line from a script:
```sh
mkdir -p "$(eval_gettext "\$GSH_HOME/Castle")"
```

All parts of mission source files that need to be translated (be they
strings, file names, etc.) must appear in this way.

If no translation is found for a given string, `gettext` will simply use its
argument. _It is thus important that all string be meaningful in English!_


### Translation files

Translation files (extension `.po`) list English strings together with their
translated version. Those files are written in the mission's `i18n` directory.

Here is part of a French translation file (file `i18n/fr.po`):
```
msgid   "$GSH_HOME/Castle"
msgstr  "$GSH_HOME/Chateau"
```

Translating an existing mission is thus only a matter of writing such a file
and translating some text files.


Workflow: translating the code of GameShell to a new language
-------------------------------------------------------------

All language specific parts of the code of GameShell are in the
`$GSH_ROOT/i18n/` directory. To add support for a new language:

  - Copy `$GSH_ROOT/i18n/template.pot` to `$GSH_ROOT/i18n/it.po` (for example)
    and translate it.
  - 
  - Each of the directories in `$GSH_ROOT/i18n` contains one text files
    per language (for example: `$GSH_ROOT/i18n/start-help/en.txt`) and
    `$GSH_ROOT/i18n/start-help/fr.txt`). Create a new text file for your
    language in each of those directory (for example,
    `$GSH_ROOT/i18n/start-help/it.txt`), and don't forget to check that the
    file `$GSH_ROOT/i18n/it.po` contains the lines
    ```
    msgid   "$GSH_ROOT/i18n/start-help/en.txt"
    msgstr  "$GSH_ROOT/i18n/start-help/it.txt"
    ```

You can add the position (file and line number) of each translation string in
the `.po` file by running `make add-locations` from the `$GSH_ROOT` directory.
That can be useful to check how the message is actually used in the code.
(Remove those positions before submitting a PR by running `make all`.)


Workflow: translating a mission that already uses `gettext`
----------------------------------------------------------

### Initializing translation files for a new language

If you want to translate a mission with existing translations, the mission
should come with an existing `i18n` directory containing a file
`i18n/template.pot`. You just need to copy this file to, for example,
`i18n/it.po` and start translating.


### Goal text files.

Translating a mission goal is slightly different. The goal is usually stored
in a text file `goal.txt`. It the mission already has translations, the goal
is instead stored in `goal/LANGUAGE.txt` (for example, `goal/fr.txt`).

To translate the goal, you need to create a new file (for example, `goal/it.txt`)
_and add the following string to your `.po` file_
```
msgid   "$MISSION_DIR/goal/en.txt"
msgstr  "$MISSION_DIR/goal/it.txt"
```

Note: treasure message files are treated similarly.


### Note: using the `Makefile`

If the mission was created using the `utils/new_mission.sh`, it should contain a
`Makefile`. The target `new` will ask for a language name and create the
corresponding `.po` file.


Workflow: adding internationalisation support to a mission
----------------------------------------------------------

### Template generation

The tool `xgettext` can parse source file and extract the strings that need to
be translated. Rather than calling `xgettext` by hand, we advise using the
`Makefile` generated with `utils/new_mission.sh`. (If the mission already
exists, your can call `utils/new_mission.sh -M` to just get the `Makefile`.)

The default target (`all`) will
- update `i18n/template.pot`,
- update all language files.

The target `add-locations` does the same, but adds comments to each pair
`msgid` / `msgstr` giving locations (`filename:line_number`) where the string
appears. That's useful during development.


The `Makefile` will look into all `*.sh` files, but if you need it to look
into other files (like, into a `bin/...` file), you can add them to the
`OTHER_FILES` variable.

Note: if one of the `*.sh` file is a link to another mission's file, you need
to add it to the `EXCEPTIONS` variable.

